that 15 seconds. That's so that you won't miss
something on the tape. I
don't know.
Now, then I don't think, I think if you're not
subscribing to the idea, which appears
frequently in the press, that the only way
American fishermen can compete is to go into this
kind of mass market fishing of the Russian and the
Japanese, that is sending out floating cities in
effect. The fact is the My own viewpoint is that
would be an economic catastrophe. I don't think
they can compete that way. I don't think, in
essence, by the way, I don't think world fisheries
are now moving in that direction. If one takes a
close examination in an economic sense in Europe
and many other areas of those fishes that are
really profitable. It's sort of the middle
distant type of vessel. A vessel that's big enough
to get out and have a reasonable operational
range, but largely is essentially delivering to a
local port in a particular region. And I think
vessels of the class from 100 to 150 feet are going
to be the dominant element of producing fish over
the next 20 years, and I think that's for where most
of your fish is going to come from. I think there's a
lot of economic problems of taking large numbers
of people to sea and maintaining them at sea,
energy costs and other things that are going to
essentially drive them out of that sort of
business. I only have one more question now along
this line before I return back to sort of a
biographical approach, but I take it you think the
200-mile limit was a wise decision on the part of
the government. Well, I was very strongly in favor
of the 200-mile limit, in spite of the fact that
many of my colleagues in academia and elsewhere
opposed it. Basically, I have felt that some sort
of system had to come into existence where some
entity was responsible. As it was, I saw just an
international conflict. And although there were
a lot of international commissions, they really
didn't have the backbone or the authority to make
the decisions. There was a great deal of
procrastination. And I've been involved with
many of these commissions. And I'd seen one
fishery after the other throughout the world
going into a depleted phase, many of which were
under the commissions. And the institutional
arrangements, their terms of reference, in my
view, just didn't allow for them to essentially
achieve sound conservation. So I think at least as
a first step, I felt that somebody had to gain
control and set up an institutional mechanism
that decisions could be made in a reasonable time
frame. Now all of those decisions I'm going to
admit are not going to be as rational as we would
like them. There's going to be politics involved
to certain extent. There's going to be loose use of
the data in terms of achievement, parochial
interest. Now I'm on as the a scientific advisor
and chairman for the North Pacific Council and
also for the Pacific Council, I'll remember. And I
think those scientific groups can have a
tremendous impact on whether or not we ultimately
are going to have a rational fisheries. Because
one, they're independent. You know, they're not
getting instructions from anybody, from their
agencies or from the consul itself. And several
instances already, our groups have come out in
conflict with a consul decision that we thought
was politically oriented and not associated with
the facts. And I think the consul perceives it's
going to be very difficult for them to essentially
win in the courts. if the scientific advisory
group has essentially come down in a very negative
way on a particular approach. So I think the
structure allows an opportunity to manage much
more effectively than we have in the past. I am
afraid of one thing, and that's that politics at a
parochial level will not allow us to reach the
intent of the law And that is, and I'll make it very
clear, I don't want to see a law that essentially
ends up forcing a lot of foreigners out of
resources that we really aren't going to use.
Waste of a large amount of food and raw material
that's needed by many people in the world just to
achieve some selfish local interest. If that
happens, then ultimately I guess I'll feel that
maybe I supported... a wrong type of
institutional arrangement. But at this point in
time, even though the councils have a lot of
problems, I still look favorably on the
arrangement. The law needs to be changed in
certain ways, but nevertheless, I favor the 200
mile, and I think it's ultimately going to be serve
mankind better than the sort of free-for-all we
had before. It may eventually, by the way, evolve
into something else. And fine, if it does under
some sort of proper controlled system, then I'll
support it. And I think we do need the
international input and cooperation. But at the
time, and under the situation we were under, when
the law came into existence, I fully supported it,
and I still do. Now, during this period of your
career, then, you're going back to graduate
school and you're really working as associate
director of the fisheries. No, at that time I was
director of the exploratory fisheries group when
I'm going back to graduate school. That's from
starting in, I guess, about 60 through 67 that I was
going. graduate school. Yeah, you finished your
PhD in 67. Right. And then when you become
associate director of fisheries? That's right.
At that time, I was asked by the director of the
Bureau of Commercial Fisheries if I'd come back
and essentially become an associate in terms of
research, associate director for research.
Those were rather ill times for me because I went
through some very difficult mental strain and
also problems in terms of what involved to me
integrity in government. I'd gone back under Mr.
Crowther, who was director, who within a very
short time frame was essentially removed as
director of the thing. I was asked to take over the
directorship, but in a manner that almost made it
impossible for me to do that. Before Mr. Crowther
was essentially fired, a high official under the
Hickle regime came and asked me if I would take over
the job if they would fire my boss, who was one of my
very good friends. And, you know, if suddenly the
job had been there and somebody said, Lee, will you
come back and take this job, I probably would have
taken the job. But for somebody to come in and say,
you know, if I fire your friend, Mr. Crowther, you
can further your career, put me in a very difficult
position. And Because of other things I saw going
down, I had a major run-in, a very interesting
aspect of my career, with an assistant secretary
for interior at that time named Dunn, whose wife
was a cousin to President Nixon. and who came out to
visit here in Seattle. I was out in Seattle. That
was the time I was stationed in Washington, but I
was out in Seattle. And I had gone down with some
other people to meeting at the airport. And he'd
been drinking and got off the plane and acted
pretty much like I was his manservant, like
telling me, go get my bags and deliver them to the
hotel. I don't cotton to that thing very easily.
And I told the secretary, well, if he wanted
somebody to get his bags, he better get a
manservant. Or he had better ask me, please, I'll
help anybody carry his bag. I had to help the
janitor carry his bag. But on the other hand, I
don't want somebody coming and telling me, pick up
my bag, boy, and I'll meet you at the hotel type of
thing. So I came very close to being fired as a
result of that. But I just hung it out. said that I
wasn't going to apologize. And I felt that if there
was any apology due, it was due to me. And
ultimately, Mr. Hickel called me personally and
asked me about that. And apparently, he and Mr.
Dunn didn't get along too well together. I'm not
sure about that. But anyway, I got a call from them.
in essence, said, forget about the problem. And it
was erased from the books. And very shortly after
that, Mr. Pickle was resigned or removed,
whatever one wants to look at that. And Mr. Dunn was
removed from the department also. So that sort of
trauma was over. But by the time that had happened,
and I had this invitation to take over the job, and
because of the various And I'll just call it
political intrigue that I saw going on, even at
middle management level in Washington. I decided
at that time that I didn't want to have anything to
do with it and asked to come back to Seattle. So my
tenure there was relatively short. I did act as
acting director for the department of Bureau of
Commercial Fishery after Mr. Crowther left. I
told the department people I would do that until
such time as they found a replacement. for Mr.
Crowther, and then I returned to Seattle. OK. And
so you're really only there, best I can figure out
from reading your vitae, you were really only
there a year. Is that right? That's about right.
And much of that, by the way, I was doing a lot of
commuting between Seattle and Washington. So I
guess an actual stay in Washington was closer to
six months. So I washed out rather quickly. If one
has a choice between DC and Seattle, there's no
choice, believe me. Seattle's a lot better. So
when you return back to Seattle now, I
assume then you're simply transferred down here.
Is this fair to say? I transferred back to a new slot
they had set up, which was sort of an associate
regional director for research. For resource
planning, a resource program. title of it myself,
but it was really for taking care of the research
program. Okay, that's what I wanted to know. I
wonder what you did, because that title implies
nothing. Yeah, that is typical of many government
titles. In essence, what it was is I was
responsible for essentially coordinating the
total research program in the region, developing
the programs and designing the programs and
working with the various, at that time, roughly
five laboratory directors and putting the
research program together here in the region.
Okay, now, what kind of programs did you try to put
together? Well, we had a whole range of them. At
that time, sort of my horizons were broadened. I
had to deal with marine mammal programs, research
in marine mammals. I had to deal with our basic
program in oceanography and fisheries
oceanography. Here are high seas fisheries
research. I had to deal with programs that still
related to exploratory fishing, gear
technology. So it was the whole gamut. of research
in terms of the broad range of things you might
think that we do under the broad umbrella of
oceanography, from fisheries biology to
physical oceanography to chemical
oceanography. So designing programs throughout
the North Pacific that dealt with the federal
involvement in fisheries and oceanography.
Did you have any long-range goal? Is that a fair
question? When you came into the job, did you have
something in mind that you wanted to accomplish?
Into that particular job? Into that particular
job. Yeah. I very much wanted to establish the
so-called center concept that now exists in the
United States. At that time, we had a whole series
of fragmented labs throughout the US, each with an
independent program and each one going its
independent direction with a tremendous amount
of overlapping programs between labs. And if you
wanted an answer in terms of somebody's response,
for example, what's the consequence of an oil
spill in area X? Or what should our position be in
terms of what's the technical information to
develop a position for negotiating with Japan?
You ended up having to run to five different labs
that might have five different views because they
were unconsolidated. They were independent,
autonomous structures. And a great deal of
overlap, in my view, waste of energy and funds in
terms of an agency that has a pretty directed
mission. You know, you can think of one thing if you
want to run a university that way is quite
different than running a government
organization that has some direct applied types
of information that must be developed on almost an
annual basis in terms of response to basic
problems that the government's confronted with.
I didn't see that. I saw a waste of people were
buying the same facilities and duplicate them.
Each lab had the same number of Nansen bottles but
was using them once a year for one crew. Each lab had
and was trying to duplicate. None of the labs, by
the way, were well essentially equipped in terms
of the type of equipment that one needs to do
science and the computer backup, the computer
facilities, the electronic systems and things
that are needed to be done. And I felt if we could
aggregate these into a series of labs that would
deal with science, not in telling this scientist
what the hell he's going to produce, But in a sense,
bringing together these people to develop an
overall set of scientific programs within a
region to be responsive to these regions. That
one, we'd have the mass. One, we could attract
better scientists because we could essentially
develop better facilities in these particular
institutions. So a lot of science won't go to a
place where there aren't the appropriate
facilities. It can be good living in Seattle. But
if you haven't got a good electron microscope, I'm
not going to get anybody that's interested in that
particular field in this area, even if it's a big
problem. And if I don't have the computer system
for the people that are doing population dynamics
and modeling to essentially use as a tool, they're
going to go someplace where they can. And none of
the labs could provide that. So the concept and
goal was here is to collect these together into a
set of major centers that would essentially have
facilities much like many of the universities do
so that we could attract damn good students coming
out of universities. I see an awful lot of
university people were turning right back to
university in terms of careers. either into
teaching or into various institutions the
university would think, because they had the
facilities, they had the environment that you
couldn't generate in most of the government
laboratories. And I guess that was one of my major
goals. Along with my own interest, of course, as a
scientist, I have always had a major interest in
the area of animal population dynamics, and I've
always felt that I have to have... at least 37% of my
time to allocate to my own special interests.
Because I have a very strong feeling about
government scientists and that it's very easy to
get in and become so caught up in administration
that quite quickly you essentially come out of the
scientific world. And then the real reason that
you were put in there as a leader, because other
scientists recognize you, other scientists
would work for you, you lose. Because you're no
longer a scientist. So I have really had a very
strong dedication that I'm going to essentially
continue in my own particular error and continue
to publish in that error a sufficient amount so
that I have that recognition and acceptance in
terms of the scientific community. I'm not sure
that happens in all government labs. I'm sure it
does not. But I have felt as a personal conviction
that that's one of my long-range goals is to always
essentially be sufficiently alert to my own field
that I am capable of publishing and writing in that
field. That's great. I support that
wholeheartedly. It's not easy to do. Not easy to
do, right. If you're an administrator, I find it
great. I find it difficult to understand how you
find the time for that. Well, I guess... Like many
of the people in the field, my sort of vacation even
at home is taking a pen and relaxing and sitting
down and working on a paper that I like. I don't do
much writing in the office here anymore, but I
still manage to get three to four papers a year and
credible journals. And I guess I do 60% to 70% of
that at home. And it's sort of a relaxation to me to
be able to sit down at home pull some papers,
particularly it gets me away from the day-to-day
administrative problems. I think a lot of
scientists end up in these things and really don't
know what they're getting into, and then find out
they're dealing with people and people problems,
and they're sort of getting aced out of the whole
area that they were trained for. I have a couple of
specific technical questions I'd like to ask you.
Now,
deep sea trawlers is really what this concerns.
What sort of technological changes do you think
need to take place, if any, before you can draw
better biological samples on deep sea trawlers?
in terms of, are you talking about kind of
research? Yeah, if you wanted to draw a
representative sample of deep sea populations,
for example, that's what many fisheries are now
trying to do. And it seems, at least to us, that
those of us on the outside that biologically, not a
very good job is being done about that. Well, let's
see. I think the best jobs is being done that one can
do with deep sea trawls and deep sea nets of the type
we have now. But you're quite correct.
Interpreting what that really means is one hell of
a problem. And in fact, this is going to be a
scenario I've written on in a great deal, and this
deals with what I like to call the coefficient of
catchability of these things. For each species,
it differs. For each species within different age
groups, it differs. In other words, that net, even
if the animal is in front of it, will take a
different proportion of of three-year-olds and
it will four-year-olds. One group is stronger,
slightly average size. It'll differ between
species because of their swimming capabilities
and their avoidance responses, their behavioral
responses. They have different behavioral
patterns. So you get a conglomerate in what I call
in terms of a net sample. Ultimately, and I think it
addresses your question, really doesn't tell you
a great deal about what was really there when the
net went through. You know, how representative is
that, and how well can you reconstruct the
original population? And probably not very well,
with the exception of, oh, I would say a half a dozen
species that we're beginning to get a fairly good
fix on the coefficient of catchability, at least
for certain size groups. But even here, you know,
it changes between seasons. The animals are more
active during one season than another. They're
more likely to be up off the bottom in one season
than in another. They're more likely to be off the
bottom at night than they are in the day. So it is one
tremendous problem. And I guess what one is
looking for and what we're shooting for down the
line is the addition of electronic sensing
equipment that not necessarily catches what's in
front of the net. The concept of electrical trawls
and things have been introduced. That perhaps
will work out, but I see a whole set of problems that
have generated that. I think it's more important
to have some sort of remote instrumentation that
really gives you a continuing fix on these set of
coefficients that we have to deal with. I think
this can be done to some extent acoustically now. I
tell you, the people that are really taking a
leadership role in this are the people over at
Lowestoft England. who have various acoustical
arrays that are essentially telling them how many
of the fish that are in front of the net and over a
certain path are ending up in the net. And they're
doing this two ways. in terms of passive and direct
acoustics. They've got very small acoustical
devices now that they put on a number of fish that
they capture, release back into the environment.
Then they know where those fish are. They've
spotted those fish. They can put the trawl down,
and they can say, all right, there's 10 of those
fish in front of my trawl, because they've got them
acoustically on their array. And they pass the
trawl through and say, we've got two of them. And
then they go through and do that again, and they
say, Well, on an average, the coefficient of
catchability of this particular species at these
particular size groups, and they're doing this
during different seasons of the year, are about x.
Now, that's a start, but it's a very tedious and
costly way to go about it. Ultimately, I guess
we're really going to have some sort of
instrumentation that's reasonable in terms of
cost that's going to essentially be scanning
across the front of the sample the trawl net in
terms of the path that's being sampled, and
ultimately saying, you know, that you're losing X
number of fish of X species. That's not going to be
easy to do. I doubt if I see it, you know, in my
lifetime. But I guess that's ultimately where
you're going to have to go if you're going to use
trawl sampling. Whether or not independent
acoustical techniques ever get to that stage, I
don't know. There's a real problem in the physics
of essentially target identification.
Detecting the animal is easy. And now even getting
a good understanding of the size of that animal is
relatively easy by the amount of energy that's
returning from the target. and the
characteristics of the blip. One knows pretty
well it's a fish. It's a fish of this size. It's a
fish with an air bladder. It's a fish without an air
bladder. But still saying it is a cod, it is a black
cod, it's a halibut, et cetera, we're a long way
from that. They're working on that. And if that's
ever overcome, then acoustical assessment could
be a major technique that will improve our ability
to assess the ocean resources.
Well, that may well have answered the next
question, which I was going to ask. And it seemed,
when we looked at your papers, most of them are on
such things as distribution, migration,
systematics of ecology and growth of marine
fishes.
How should research be expanded into that area? I
mean, given the unreliability of data, would
acoustical soundings, is that what you suggest as
the major development? I only bring acoustics
forward as one new tool. But I think one has to be
careful. I think reliance on any one tool is not an
appropriate way for the scientists to go forward.
I think we're going to have to continue with a wide
variety of net sampling from everything from our
standard one meter plankton nets to bongo nets to a
variety of trawls and persains and craps and a
whole range of sampling techniques. I think we'd
like to broaden our direct observation through
television
and And I think we'll learn a lot from scuba divers.
I don't think the use of scuba divers has been made
as scientific as it should. It's been sort of a
random set of observations and photography. I
think that could be improved. But I think remote
sensing and direct sensing are going to add a
dimension between now and the end of the century
that's far ahead of anything we've got. If you see
some of the things that that are coming out and
available to the people in the oil industry and can
be termed and applied in terms of some of our
problems in fisheries and fishery science,
they'll add a great dimension to this. And I really
think that where we're going, at least over the
next 10 years, of course, is getting out of this
sort of single fisheries or focus into really more
into an ecosystem focus. And this then, of course,
does demand you look across much broader range of
animals. All right, now that's the next question.
What management theories then are you leading to
with these kinds of studies? And clearly you're
leading to a management theory of an ecosystem.
What is it? Okay, I want to be careful not to use
jargon here. You know, everybody's talking about
ecosystem management, and I think it's a very
loose term at this point in our capabilities. When
I sit down and talk to the marine mammal specialist
who said, you know, you guys are wrong in
fisheries. You need to get into ecosystem
management. My answer is, you're right. Now,
where do we go? Now, that's the question you answer
me. If you turn around and say, what models do you
have to tell us to do this? What set of observations
do we have? Then, you know, we start to skate on
pretty thin ice. We just don't have a hell of a lot of
information in terms of good ecosystem concepts.
Now, here at the center, I've got a special group
that's working on ecosystem modeling for the
Bering Sea. And it's the area probably have more
data on a broader range of animals than any place in
the world. We have good data on birds. We've got
good data on marine mammals. We've got good data on
the upper trophic level of fish. We've got good
data on plankton, et cetera. Still, I think we're
10 years away from a model that has adequate
predictive capability to get into the day-to-day
management process. The system is so dynamic, and
we can measure so few things in the system at this
time, that we're really just guessing. And I see a
hell of a lot of guessing of, in the Antarctic,
people are going to fish krill, and it's going to
destroy the opportunity for the whales to come
back. And I think a lot of this is is based on a high
degree of emotionalism and also by the way i think
it's a tactic to get money we sign issues all sorts
of tactics to get money like everybody else and i
just hope that the tactic and the emotionalism
doesn't overrun our real capabilities in the
field there is an opportunity in my view to do a much
better management and job in management of our
aquatic resources by taking an ecosystem
approach but not taking one in a haphazard sense
that says, I'm going to throw everything away I've
done because really the single species approach
really isn't very good, and now I'm going to go to an
ecosystem. You know, it took us years to develop
even some halfway reasonable data to manage
single species. It's going to take us a long time
before we really have reached the point where we
can say, If we perturb this, this, and this, these
are the likely consequences in the system,
particularly when you've got so much noise in the
environment that's having a tremendous
influence on that complex itself. So I guess I go
forward cautiously saying we must go there. But I
think we have to do it in a very scientific way, and
that we oughtn't to just discard a lot of what we
already have. Because really, they represent the
only tools we have probably in the short range to
give some answers to managers. In five to 10 years,
I think we will start to have models, at least in
this part of the world, where we're looking at 25
species at one time and looking at the
interactions. We're building that now, but we're
building towards it.